what is?

SAP is an enterprise resource planning system (ERP) that was first launched in Germany almost 50 years ago. It stands for Systems, Applications, and Products and is an acronym that stands for Systems, Applications, and Products. ERPs are systems that integrate all functional areas of a business, from human resources to finance and period closing functions. SAP is the leading ERP system in use today and is used by 87 percent of global organizations. It can support functions from the oil and gas industry, manufacturing industries, to government bodies, Shell, Harley Davidson, and Exxon.

Oracle is the most known alternative to SAP, but even Microsoft has gotten into the market. SAP is a comprehensive solution for businesses looking to improve their efficiency, security, and compliance. It offers automation tools, data analysis, and compliance management. Companies can leverage the power of SAP if they have separate systems that are isolated or siloed and don't communicate with each other. SAP also provides massive amounts of data that can be used to make better business decisions. Compliance is important in many industries, and SAP has a module that automates checks to ensure compliance with government regulations.



Modules

SAP is divided into two types of modules: technical and functional. Technical modules are designed to ensure the system runs correctly, while functional modules house transactions that align with business processes. There are many implemented SAP modules, such as Logistics, Sales and Distribution, Materials Management, Production Planning, Quality Management, Financial Accounting, Controlling, Project Systems, and Human Capital Management. Functional modules are tightly integrated and send information between each other efficiently. Industry-specific modules are available in many fields, such as aerospace and defense, life sciences, oil and gas, retail, and utilities.

SAP Financial Accounting, or SAP FI, is one of the most implemented modules in SAP. It tracks and allows reporting on financial data across a company and covers every financial business process. The General Ledger, or GL, houses all financial transaction data in a chart of accounts. Four primary submodules of the FI module in the general ledger are accounts payable, accounts receivable, bank management, and asset accounting. Accounts payable is the FI submodule that deals with supplier-related data, accounts receivable is where we deal with customers and manage customer data, asset accounting deals with a company's fixed assets, and bank accounting deals with all of the company's bank account transactions.

SAP Controlling, commonly known as SAP CO, deals with planning and monitoring business operation costs. There are five primary submodules of the SAP CO module. Cost centers deal with the costs associated with the company's internal departments like human resources, while profit centers deal with the profits associated with the company's internal departments. SAP is a company that has four main components: Profit Center Accounting, Internal Orders, Product Costing, and Profitability Analysis. Profit Center Accounting is used to evaluate profit or loss of independent areas within a company.

Internal Orders are used to manage the cost for small internal projects within a controlling area. Product Costing looks at the costs required to produce goods and services. Profitability Analysis measures the profitability of the products or services offered. Materials Management ensures that there are always the right materials available at the right time for a business. There are four major components of Materials Management in SAP: Master Data, Purchasing, Inventory Management, and Sales and Distribution.

SAP Sales and Distribution is a logistics module that is used to deal with customer and product-related data. SAP Production Planning is a logistics module that helps businesses produce goods efficiently and in the right timing to meet sales demands. It requires four key requirements: the bill of material, routings, capacity planning, material requirement planning, and the SAP Quality Management module. The bill of material is a complete inventory of the raw materials, assemblies, and other components used to manufacture a product. Routings are a description of operations and the sequence that is required to be followed so that an item may be produced.

Capacity planning is done to balance the production load across different work centers in SAP. Material requirement planning is used to guarantee material availability of lower-level components identified within the BOM for production. Finally, the SAP Quality Management module ensures that any goods produced, or received, meet the defined level of quality before they are shipped to customers or used in higher-level assemblies. The Quality Management module is a comprehensive tool that has three cornerstones: quality inspection, quality control, and quality notifications. Quality inspection is the process of inspecting goods and recording any defects.

Quality control is the area where different preventative and corrective actions take place. Vendors are also evaluated on quality metrics. Quality notifications record internal and external problems that are caused by poor quality of products. The human capital management module has many submodules, such as organizational management, time management, benefits management, and recruitment. These modules allow companies to track applicants and determine how effective recruiting efforts are within the organization.


Data and Organizational Structures
There are two major types of data in SAP, master data and transactional data. Master data is the building blocks, or the foundation for all the transactions to come. Master data is relatively static. At many organizations, there are people with special permissions that can manipulate or create the master data. So think of master data as the nouns, it's the people, such as customers or suppliers, it's the places, such as assets, or things, such as materials. Transactional data, on the other hand, is constantly in flux. It leverages verbs, like sales, purchasing, and invoicing. Poor master data will lead to poor quality transactions, which emphasizes the importance of excellent master data. Each SAP module has its own independent organizational structure, which defines the relationships between different workgroups and departments. This table highlights some, but not all aspects of the organizational structures associated with those modules. Starting with finance, there's the chart of accounts, which lists all the accounts and is based on country‑defined accounting rules. Next is company, which is the level where individual financial statements can be created. Below company are company codes. A company can have multiple codes, and each company code can have multiple business areas. An example of a business area within a company code would be manufacturing. In sales and distribution, the sales org is at the highest level, and all reporting on sales activities is done at the sales organization level. Below that is the distribution channel, which is how customers are reached, such as retail versus wholesale. The next component is division, which handles a specific product line. A company may have one division that sells consumer products and a separate division that sells consulting services. The combination of sales organization, distribution channel, and division are referred to as the sales area. Moving on to materials management. First up is the plant. A plant can be a manufacturing facility, a distribution center, or even an office. Storage locations within plants are the physical storage locations where stock is stored. Purchasing organizations handle negotiations and procurement activities from suppliers. Purchasing organizations can handle procurement across multiple company codes or they may be limited and simply do the buying for a specific plant. Purchasing orgs are often broken up into purchasing groups, which handles specific aspects, such as specific materials within the buying process. In human capital management, again, we see the company code, which is its own independent accounting unit. Within the company code, there are personnel areas. A personnel area could be assigned to a country within a company code. Similarly, a personnel subarea would just be a smaller division of a personnel area. Perhaps a personnel subarea would be assigned to one operating location within a country. Again, organizational structures define the relationships between different work groups and different departments. They are set up when the system is first configured at a new company, and they remain static, unless a company acquires another company or divest different parts of its business.

Logging in to the SAP GUI
Once SAP is installed on your computer, you'll see the Logon pad icon on your desktop. Simply double‑click the icon to launch the login application. This is known as the Logon pad. Depending on your company or your instance of SAP, you might have several connections to choose from, such as S/4 HANA or EWM or perhaps even a GTS module. Simply select the appropriate connection and click the Log On button. The login screen requires three things from you, the client you wish to access, your user ID, and your password. The client is a self‑contained system. Think of a client like a room in a house where the connection you are trying to access is the house. You might have three or four rooms in your house. Each room is very similar with four walls, a door, etc., but each room may not be exactly like the others. The furniture, for example, in one room may be different than another. Client 100, in this example, could have different configuration, different master data, and/or transactional data. So be sure you have specified the correct client. In most production systems, you'll only have a single client to choose from.
