The notion of Supply Chain Management (SCM) has become increasingly popular over the past decade, with 13.5% of concurrent session titles containing the notion of the supply chain at 1995 Annual Conference of the Council of Logistics Management. SCM Managers have tried to design effective businesses to meet customer demands better than competitors, and optimising processes such as production, distribution and inventory with appropriate information can improve SCM performance and decrease costs. However, managers face many problems such as lack of skills, information sharing deficeincy, order fluctuation and demand variations. In the today competitive global market, selecting a suitable method of production is an important decision which should be taken by managers to quickly respond to the customers. Often, made to stock or make-to-order (or engineer-to-order) styles have been chosen, however, there are some limitations in both methods which often create problems in managing orders in organisations.

The role of forecasting in a supply chain implementation is essential for organisations to organise all their processes and activities not only in production but also warehousing and distribution systems. Automotive companies in Iran have been considered as the most important and strategic industries in this country, making a large contribution to entrepreneurship, gross domestic product, external trade and employment in this country. This article is outlined into two parts: (A) Focusing on the role of forecasting in a supply chain implementation through review of selected SCM literature. (B) Identifying the impact of prediction in managing activities in practice among automotive organisations in Iran through conducting a case study. Finally, the key issues which merit special attention in the future will be highlighted.

The role of forecasting in a supply chain implementation is an important issue in the today global SCM. Recognising the best methods of prediction and accessing the critical information which lead managers to make best prediction of future orders are the most important issue in the today global SCM. The predictions techniques can be classified into the four various types such as; qualitative, time series, causal and simulation. Kovalchuk and Fasli (2008) proposed the Genetic Programming (GP) and Neural Network (NN) learning methods to predict the lower price among the ones offers by all sellers for each goods. Kovalchuk and Fasli (2008) proposed the Genetic Programming (GP) and Neural Network (NN) learning methods to predict the lower price among the ones offers by all sellers for each goods.